{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f17\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f18\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f20\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f22\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f24\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f30\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f32\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f33\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f34\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Plain Text;}{\s16\sb240\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f2\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 ASCII Keyword;}{\s17\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 ASCII Description;}{
\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \i\f1\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 ASCII Notes;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid83841158}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid343165370}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid357899428}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360
\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid937370589}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname 
;}\listid1011108998}{\list\listtemplateid67698705\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1040983114}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1539077550}{\list\listtemplateid67698703
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1811746346}{\list\listtemplateid-887866434\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1926456452}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1011108998
\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1011108998\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid343165370\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid937370589\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid357899428\listoverridecount0\ls5}
{\listoverride\listid83841158\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid1539077550\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid1926456452\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid1040983114\listoverridecount0\ls9}}{\info{\title Character Studio 2}
{\author Adam Felt}{\operator yatesj}{\creatim\yr1999\mo6\dy17\hr16\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo6\dy17\hr16\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages17}{\nofwords5228}{\nofchars29803}{\*\company Autodesk, Inc.}{\nofcharsws36600}{\vern89}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b Character Studio 2.2 Motion Capture (CSM) File Format
\par }{
\par NOTE: A new usage section for Character Studio 2.2 CSM import has been appended to the beginning of this document.  Please refer to this new section for import information on CSM mocap import workflow.
\par 
\par This document describes the Character Studio 2.2 CSM Motion Capture File format.  The CSM format is an ASCII file that is used to import positional marker data from various motion capture systems into Character Studio 2.2 to animate bipedal characters. 

\par 
\par Character Studio 2.2 is comprised of two plug-ins for 3D Studio MAX: Biped(tm) and Physique(tm).  The Biped plug-in provides for creation and high-level articulation of biped character "bone" systems, while Physique manages skin deformation and behavior, 
based on bone postures.
\par 
\par Biped 2.2 provides direct input of CSM files from disk, including comprehensive key-frame reduction, footstep extraction, and talent figure and pose calibration to provide a fast and accurate means of import for large volumes of po
sitional data stored in the CSM format.  
\par 
\par Biped 2.2 uses positional data stored in the CSM format to pose a Biped character on a frame-by-frame basis and to move it forward in time. During import, xyz marker positions stored in the CSM file are used to de
rive bone rotation data for the biped at each frame, eliminating the need to convert positional marker data into rotational form prior to import. 
\par 
\par Once imported, CSM-based animations can be saved out as native Biped .bip files, providing access to a comprehensive set of animation, motion mapping, and structural modification features that are built directly into Biped 2.2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f2\cgrid0 Overview of CSM Workflow and General Use}{\f2\cgrid0 
\par 
\par The  Character Studio R2.2 release for 3DS MAX R3 computes a joint centered skeleton so that the hands and feet are positioned precisely over  world-space hand and feet markers, with inverse-kinematics used to solve for the required joint angles. 
\par 
\par In the new approach, the hands and feet may be tracked with much higher accuracy and quality, but th
e calibration is much more critical since errors in positioning and bone size will  propagate and accumulate through the hierarchical figure structure from the root to the hands/feet (For example, if the spine bones are longer, the shoulder will be higher
, so the arm  will have to stretch further to place the hand at a low world space height.)
\par 
\par There are three distinct phases for processing CSM mocap data effectively:
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\f2\cgrid0 1)\tab Create "Talent Definition" files (.cal and .fig) for a given performer from a specially recorded "calibration pose motion"
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f2\cgrid0 
\par 2) Create .bip  motions from the talent's csm motions using the same Talent Definition files from step 1)
\par 
\par 3) Adapt or "motion map"  the talent's .bip motions to synthetic characters that are different than the talent
\par 
\par      MOTION CAPTURE CONVERSION WORKFLOW  
\par     ------------------------------------
\par       
\par \tab |------------------|
\par \tab |1)  CALIBRATION   | <-- Short calibration pose motion .CSM file
\par \tab |------------------|
\par        \tab \tab |
\par       (.CAL and .FIG files used as "Talent Definition") 
\par                   |      \tab \tab  
\par        \tab \tab v
\par \tab |------------------|
\par \tab |2)  PROCESSING    | <-- Motion .CSM files captured from person with
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f2\cgrid0 |------------------| \tab \tab markers in Talent Definition
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f2\cgrid0        \tab \tab |
\par       (Talent figure's .BIP files) 
\par        \tab \tab |
\par        \tab \tab v
\par \tab |------------------|
\par \tab |3) MOTION MAPPING | 
\par \tab |------------------|
\par        \tab \tab |
\par        \tab \tab v
\par \tab (Final target character's .BIP files)
\par 
\par  
\par 
\par 1) CALIBRATION: CREATE TALENT DEFINITION FILES (.cal and .fig)  
\par 
\par The calibration
  pose motion should ALWAYS be created with the feet flat and body in the vertical position. Ideally the legs should be straight with the arms outstretched to the side. There should be no marker drop-outs in this first frame (the user can skip bad data by
 setting the start frame at the first good frame), since frame 0 is used to get the default bone lengths.  Note that (as always), calibration may only be employed with no key reduction or footstep extraction. It'
s advisable to use short segments for this st
age (under 200 frames). The advantage to using a motion segment is that the user can see the effects of interactive manual calibration over the range of frames that are loaded. So a short motion that shows the arms slowly falling to the sides (for example
) is best.
\par 
\par By default, the system will automatically calibrate to make the root (center-of-mass) upright and the feet flat. The user should them employ (in any order):
\par 
\par A)  "Talent Figure Mode" to make adjustments to bone length as needed by adjusting
 the bone lengths by non-uniformly scaling in x. In this mode, using Copy Posture/Paste Opposite Posture or the just using  symmetrical adjustment is one way to insure that the right and left leg/arms  are the same (as with regular Figure Mode). Upon leav
ing "Talent Figure Mode", the figure will  recalibrate to the motion with the new bone sizes. To repeat this, just enter Talent Figure Mode again and iterate until satisfied.
\par 
\par B)   "Adjust Talent Pose" allows the user to rotate and position body parts, incl
uding the root center-of-mass, to better fit the data. Because the calibration is hierarchical, rotations of the body may need some adjustments to the spine and feet. It should be pretty intuitive in any case, since what you see if what you get.
\par 
\par 
\par There are two modes for interactively calibrating the Talent Pose that are based on the settings in the 3DSMAX\\PLUGCFG\\BIPED.INI file. 
\par 
\par MocapUseLegIK=1 means that "Adjust Talent Pose" will always snap the feet  back to the world space markers
\par 
\par MocapUseArmIK=1 means that "Adjust Talent Pose" will always snap the hands back to the world space markers
\par 
\par If either value is 0, the hands or feet will not snap back. You may want to use this to offset hand and foot positions from their markers. Otherwise, at a value of 1, its easier to fine tune 
other body parts with the assurance that the hands and feet will snap back in place when the talent pose is adjusted. Note that you may change the BIPED.INI with a text editor (notepad or WordPad utilities, save the file, and r
eload the csm file with the new settings without rebooting MAX.
\par 
\par 
\par Once the Talent figures bone sizes and pose adjustments look good (that is, the figure fits correctly inside the markers), the user MUST:
\par 
\par C) "Save Talent Figure Structure" to insure that th
is figure can be applied other files that use the same performer/marker_placement. This is saved as a .fig file format and will automatically appear (with the correct path name)  in the mocap import dialogue box on the next mocap import.
\par 
\par D) "Save Talent P
ose Adjustment" to insure that the pose calibration can be applied other files that use the same  performer/marker_placement.  This is saved as a .cal file and will also automatically appear (with the correct path name) in the mocap import dialogue box on
 the next mocap import. SPECIAL NOTE: Saving the .cal is REQUIRED even if no interactive use of "Adjust Talent Pose" has been done in order to save automatic calibration information about the body's waist and  feet markers.
\par 
\par 
\par 2) PROCESSING:  CONVERT ALL MOTIONS THAT USE THE SAME TALENT DEFINITION STRUCTURE (.fig) and CALIBRATION (.cal)
\par  
\par Now use the .cal and .fig files in the Talent Definition section of the Mocap Conversion Parameters Dialogue Box to process  all the  files of that performer that use the ma
rker placement of the calibration motion. For new marker placements or performers, the process should begin with PHASE 1 again. Of course, additional tweaking  of the calibration may be for a specific file if desired. NOTE: One advantage is using the same
 .fig talent structure is that no adaptation is computed if these files are loaded onto the same figure. This means that long key-frame/frame .bip files will load instantly. It will also guarantee consistency that one figure is performing all the moves.

\par 
\par No
te that Batch mode may be used for this stage, especially if the goal is just to convert the files raw (frame per frame). Otherwise, each file will probably warrant fine tuning on the key-frame reduction/footstep extraction parameters. For cases with slid
ing motion, and sliding angle of 15 degrees is usually effective.
\par 
\par 3) MOTION MAPPING:  NOW APPLY MOTIONS TO SYNTHETIC CHARACTERS WITH DIFFERENT DIMENSIONS AND/OR  LINK STRUCTURE
\par 
\par Once a clean .bip has been created with a figure that matches the actual perfo
rmer in the mocap session, it may then be mapped onto other characters. Mapping motion to other characters will work with or without key-frame reduction  or footstep extraction. In fact, raw data (key-frame per frame) with no footsteps maps extremely well
 in most cases.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2\cgrid0 Summary of New BIPED 2.2 Variables in 3dsmax\\plucfg\\BIPED.INI for CSM processing}{\f2\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Parameter(=default)        Range            Function
\par ===============================================================================
\par }\pard \fi-5400\li5400\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f2\cgrid0 MocapUseLegIK=1            0 or 1          snaps feet  to markers during Adjust Talent Pose CSM calibration
\par 
\par MocapUseArmIK=1            0 or 1          snaps hands to markers during AdjustTalent Pose CSM calibration
\par 
\par MocapVariableDynamics=1    0 or 1          turns on automatic determination ofDynamics Blend for verticalkeyframes
\par 
\par MocapHeightSmoothing=0     0 to 20         smooths out captured body vertical height values to prevent jitter
\par 
\par MocapBodyHorzSmoothing=0   0 to 20         smooths out captured body horizontal translation values to prevent jitter
\par 
\par MocapBodyRotSmoothing=3    0 to 20         smooths out captured body rotation captured values to prevent jitter
\par 
\par MocapSpineSmoothing=6      0 to 20         smooths out captured spine captured values to prevent jitter
\par 
\par MocapHeadSmoothing=3       0 to 20         smooths out captured head captured values to prevent jitter
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f2\cgrid0 
\par The MocapUseLegIK and MocapUseArmIK parameters are explained in the previous paragraph.
\par 
\par MocapVariableDynamics will introduce gravity based
 biped dynamics for vertical keyframes that surround ballistic jumps between footsteps, but only when both Footstep extraction  and  Keyframe reduction are on, otherwise this parameter has no effect. If the gravity-based jump deviates significantly from t
he captured data, spline dynamics (that is, dynamics blend = 0) is used. This typically happens for falling down motions.
\par 
\par If MocapVariableDynamics is set to zero, the conversion will use either spline or biped dynamics  for all vertical keyframes in accordance the user's settings in the Animation Properties in the Biped Motion Panel.
\par 
\par The Mocap*****Smoothing parameters smooth out jitters in the data, with higher values increasing the degree of smoothing. Values higher than 10 will begin to alter the more gross aspects of the motion, but values less than seven should only 
remove minor wobbles that sometimes occur due to small fluctuations in marker relationships. The defaults are the recommended values.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f2\cgrid0 CSM.MAX}{\f2\cgrid0  }{\b\f2\cgrid0 for}{\f2\cgrid0  }{\b\f2\cgrid0 Placement and export of CSM markers
\par 
\par }{\f2\cgrid0 An example of desired CSM marker placements may be seen by viewing the }{\b\f2\cgrid0 CSM.MAX}{\f2\cgrid0  file in the CSTUDIO\\DOCS folder on the release CD and after installation
. This file may also be used as a starting point for importing csm files in cases where you wish to export edited csm motions using the }{\b\f2\cgrid0 CSMXPORT.MS }{\f2\cgrid0 MAXScript utility found in the same folder. For export, you should
\par 
\par 1) Load }{\b\f2\cgrid0 CSM.MAX}{\f2\cgrid0  (you may adjust the marker positions as desired for your export to another application)
\par 2) Load a mocap file and edit it with the MAX marker objects attached
\par 3) Run the }{\b\f2\cgrid0 CSMXPORT.MS }{\f2\cgrid0 MAXScript utility for the active frames you wish to export.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b Overview of CSM-supported Marker Attachment Positions
\par }{
\par CSM marker values are time-varying xyz locations which are typically generated by reflective mark
ers and optical motion capture systems.  These xyz values may also be derived from other motion capture sensing devices that generate positional data in a world-coordinate system.  
\par 
\par Biped 2.2 supports a fixed set of known markers that correspond to reflective markers or sensors attached to different parts of a Human "talent" subject during a motion capture session.  
\par 
\par Biped's "superset" of supported markers was chosen to cover typical marker/sensor configurations used by various motion capture service companies and hardware vendors.  
\par 
\par The complete set of Biped-supported marker names and attachments are listed below. Optional Markers are noted; these optional markers are not needed for import, but do contribute to a more accurate solution, if present.  All 
other makers are required for Biped to read a CSM file successfully.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Character Studio Supported Marker Names and Attachments
\par }{
\par }{\b Head
\par }{LFHD\tab Left Front Head
\par LBHD\tab Left Back Head
\par RBHD\tab Right Back Head
\par RFHD\tab Right Front Head
\par 
\par }{\b Chest}{
\par CLAV\tab top chest
\par STRN\tab center chest
\par 
\par }{\b Waist}{
\par LFWT\tab Left Front Waist
\par LBWT\tab Left Back Waist
\par RBWT\tab Right Back Waist
\par RFWT\tab Right Front Waist
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Spine}{
\par C7\tab Top of Spine
\par T10\tab Middle of Back
\par SACR\tab Lower Back (optional)
\par 
\par }{\b Left Leg
\par }{LKNE\tab Left Outer Knee
\par LKNI\tab Left Inner Knee (Optional)
\par LANK\tab Left Outer Ankle
\par LHEL\tab Left Heel (Optional)
\par LMT5\tab Left Outer Metatarsal
\par LMTI\tab Left Inner Metatarsal (Optional)
\par LTOE\tab Left Toe
\par 
\par }{\b Right Leg
\par }{RKNE\tab Right Outer Knee
\par RKNI\tab Right Inner Knee (Optional)
\par RANK\tab Right Outer Ankle
\par RHEL\tab Right Heel (Optional)
\par RMT5\tab Right Outer Metatarsal
\par RMTI\tab Right Inner Metatarsal (Optional)
\par RTOE\tab Right Toe
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Left Arm
\par }{LSHO\tab Left Shoulder
\par LELB\tab Left Outer Elbow
\par LILB\tab Left Inner Elbow  (optional)
\par LWRE\tab Left Wrist Stick End
\par LWRI\tab Left Wrist Stick Base
\par LWRA\tab Left Wrist Inner near thumb (alternative to LWRE)
\par LWRB\tab Left Wrist Outer opposite thumb (alternative to LWRI)
\par LFIN\tab Left Hand
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Right Arm
\par }{RSHO\tab Right Shoulder
\par RELB\tab Right Outer Elbow
\par RILB\tab Right Inner Elbow (optional)
\par RWRE\tab Right Wrist Stick End
\par RWRI\tab Right Wrist Stick Base 
\par RWRA\tab Right Wrist Inner near thumb (alternative to RWRE)
\par RWRB\tab Right Wrist Outer opposite thumb (alternative to RWRI)
\par RFIN\tab Right Hand
\par 
\par  
\par CSM files that utilize Biped 2.2 marker names exactly as shown above may be read into Biped 2.2 directly.  Additionally, for convenience, the CSM format supports custom marker na
mes for the known marker positions described above. These custom marker names must be correlated to the preset marker names listed above using a Marker name file (MNM).  That is, the Left Shoulder marker need not be named "LSHO", as long as the CSM string
 "myleftshoulder" is matched to "LSHO" using the separate Marker name file MNM.  For more details on the MNM file format, see below.
\par 
\par }{\b Understanding Wrist Marker Alternatives
\par }{
\par For specification of wrist markers, the CSM file may contain either of two types of wrist marker attachments (but not both).
\par 
\par For the first method, the wrist position/orientation may be specified by the use of a "stick" attached to the wrist at a 90 degree angle to the forearm, centered at the wristwatch position.  These markers are used to describe the stick position: 
\par 
\par LWRE \tab \tab Left Wrist Stick End 
\par LWRI\tab \tab Left Wrist Stick Base
\par RWRE \tab \tab Right Wrist Stick End
\par RWRI\tab \tab Right Wrist Stick Base
\par 
\par 
\par For the second method, The RWRA--RWRB and LWRA--LWRB markers define the alternative markers that are on the inner and outer positions of the wrist (via a wristband). The RWRA/LWRA markers are on the inside (closer to thumb)
\par 
\par LWRA \tab \tab Left Wrist Inner near thumb (alternative to LWRE)
\par LWRB\tab \tab Left Wrist Outer opposite thumb (alternative to LWRI)
\par RWRA \tab \tab Right Wrist Inner near thumb (alternative to RWRE)
\par RWRB \tab \tab Right Wrist Outer opposite thumb (alternative to RWRI)
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Understanding Marker Placement for C7, CLAV, STRN, and T10
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f2\cgrid0 In general, the midpoints of the upper C7-CLAV  the lower STRN-T10 are used to guide the ve
rtical direction of the chest bones, so it's important that these marker pairs reside at about the same body height in the right location. The "fashion1.csm" in the motions\\mocap\\csm\\
Vicon folder on the release CD is an example of where these markers should be.
\par 
\par See Below:
\par 
\par SIDE VIEW
\par =========
\par 
\par .----
\par |     \\  -" head"
\par ----- /
\par       | - "neck"
\par C7-CLAV ---- midpoint near top of spine
\par       | - "spine2"
\par T10-STRN --- midpoint at top of 2nd chest link (2/3rds way up spine)
\par       | - "spine1"
\par       | - "spine"
\par WTB-WTF-- midpoint of 4 waist markers at bottom of spine
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par }{\b Overall CSM File Structure
\par }{
\par The CSM file is broken down into the following sections, each introduced by a $section title.  These sections can occur in the any order, with the exception of $order, which
 must precede $points, at some location in the file.  The $section titles may be upper or lowercase. The [ ] notation shown below indicates a required numeric value or string of the specified type (the [ ] notation gets replaced by an actual value or stri
ng in the file). The [ ] information may occur on the same line as the $section title.
\par 
\par $comments\tab [string]\tab \tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par Comments. Continued until the next $section title.
\par 
\par $filename\tab [string]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par Name of file.
\par String with normal Windows 95/NT naming do's and don\rquote ts.
\par 
\par $capturedate\tab [yyyy/mm/dd]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par Date of capture session for this file.
\par Month and date can be one or two digits (i.e. with or without leading zeros.)
\par Year is always four digits long. (i.e. 1998/01/31)
\par 
\par 
\par $capturetime\tab [hh:mm:ss]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par Time of capture session for this file.
\par Uses 24 format (i.e. 23:02:59).
\par 
\par $actor\tab [string]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par The name of the actor used to capture the motion.
\par Useful to know so that actor-to-data map files can be automatically located.  Useful also from a data ma
nagement point of view.  This does mean that each file will contain the data for only one actor/creature.  For multiple characters multiple files will be used.
\par 
\par $firstframe\tab [ integer ]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par The first frame of point data present.  
\par 
\par $lastframe\tab [ integer ]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par The last frame of point data present.  
\par 
\par $rate\tab \tab [ integer ]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par The sample rate of the point data contained in the $point section below, computed in samples per second. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f2 $Talent <units> 
\par head <HEAD_LENGTH>
\par neck <NECK_LENGTH>
\par clavicle <CLAV_LENGTH>
\par upperarm <UPPERARM_LENGTH>
\par forearm <LOWERARM_LENGTH>
\par spine <TORSO_LENGTH>
\par pelvheight <PELVIS_HEIGHT>
\par pelvheight <PELVIS_LENGTH>
\par thigh <UPPERLEG_LENGTH>
\par calf <LOWERLEG_LENGTH>
\par footheight <FOOT_HEIGHT>
\par footlength <FOOT_LENGTH>
\par }\pard \li1440\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs16 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f2 where <units> is either millimeter OR inches (one MUST be specified)
\par and
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\f2 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 1.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
HEAD_LENGTH is measured from the top of the head to bottom of the chin
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 2.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
NECK_LENGTH is measured from the base of the head to top of the spine
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 3.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
CLAV_LENGTH is the length of the clavicle or collar bone 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 4.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
UPPERARM_LENGTH is measured from the shoulder to the elbow
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 5.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
LOWERARM_LENGTH is the length from the elbow to the wrist 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 6.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
TORSO_LENGTH is the length of the entire spine, which will be broken into three links
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 7.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 PELVIS_HEIGHT is used to specif
y the distance between the base of the spine and the pelvis
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 8.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 PELVIS_LENGTH is measured 
from the right hip to the left hip
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 9.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 UPPERLEG_LENGTH is measured 
from the hip to the knee
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 10.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 LOWERLEG_LENGTH is measured 
from the knee to the ankle
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 11.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 FOOT_HEIGHT is measured from 
the ankle  to the bottom of the foot
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 12.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1440{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 FOOT_LENGTH is measured from 
the heel to the base of the big toe
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 13.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1440{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
The names for body parts now correspond to biped naming conventions (that the user sees when clicking on Biped parts.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 14.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1440{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
All 12 body parts that must be delineated.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 15.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li810\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1440{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
Talent size information in a CSM file will be ignored if a Figure Structure file (*.fig) is specified in the Talent Definition region of the Biped Motion Capture Conversion Parameters dialog.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 16.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 
The <body part> <number> pairs may be specified in any order.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 17.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li720\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 If a body part is missing, it will 
receive a large default dimension so that the user can visually see that these missing part dimensions need to be provided.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 18.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li720\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f2 If a body part name cannot
 be identified due to a misspelling,  its numerical value is skipped over as if it was a missing body part
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par $spinelinks\tab [ integer ]\tab OPTIONAL
\par 
\par Indicates how many links are desired in converted biped (default is 3, range is 2-3). 
\par 
\par 
\par $order\tab \tab [name1  name2  name3 .....nameN ]\tab REQUIRED
\par 
\par The order of the point/marker data contained in the point section which follows. Each string name corresponds to a capture marker/point name.   It is assumed that a value is provided for every point (not necessarily a measured ma
rker) in every frame that is present.  If there is any mismatch between the number of items contained in this $order section and the number of items in the $point section then it is assumed that the file has been incorrectly generated and the import will 
be aborted. Each marker is assumed to have 3 values X,Y and Z, specified in that order.
\par 
\par Note marker names can be of any length but must not contain commas (,)
\par 
\par Marker names should match Biped 2.2 supported marker names by default.  If custom marker names are used, they must be correlated to Biped 2.2 supported marker names using the Marker Name Mapping file (MNM) - see below.
\par \tab 
\par $points\tab \tab 
\par [ firstframe#_integer\tab name1_float_x \tab name1_float_y\tab name1_float_z\tab name2_float_x\tab name2_float_y \tab name2_float_z\tab name3_float_x \tab name3_float_y \tab name3_float_z
\par 
\par ...\tab nameN_float_x\tab nameN_float_y\tab nameN_float_z ]
\par 
\par [ secondframe#_integer\tab name1_float_x \tab name1_float_y\tab name1_float_z \tab name2_float_x\tab  name2_float_y \tab name2_float_z\tab name3_float_x \tab name3_float_y \tab name3_float_z
\par 
\par ...\tab nameN_float_x\tab nameN_float_y\tab nameN_float_z ]
\par 
\par ...
\par 
\par [ Nthframe#_integer\tab name1_float_x \tab name1_float_y\tab name1_float_z \tab name2_float_x\tab name2_float_y \tab name2_float_z\tab name3_float_x \tab name3_float_y \tab name3_float_z
\par ...\tab nameN_float_x\tab nameN_float_y\tab nameN_float_z ]
\par 
\par ]\tab REQUIRED.
\par 
\par A list of the X Y Z translations of the markers defined in the $order section above, where the first item is the frame number automatically.
\par 
\par All data is specified in XYZ order.
\par 
\par All data is Z-up right handed axis system.
\par 
\par The first frame number cannot be assumed to always be 1 (see firstframe= field).
\par 
\par The data section will be complete: it will contain a line for every frame between $firstframe and $lastframe, and frames will be ordered in ascending order.
\par 
\par Each frame is delimited with a carriage return or line feed (CR or LF).
\par The end of the $point section is reached either when the end of file is found or a new section indicator ($) is found.
\par 
\par Units are millimeters.
\par 
\par }{\b Handling Missing "dropout" marker data
\par }{
\par Where a missing or invalid co-ordinate value exists in th
e captured data, the csm file should contain an empty field designated by the symbol DROPOUT.  The presence of the DROPOUT symbol will not stop the import; the reader will simply skip to the next field. The DROPOUT symbol will replace the 3 xyz values for
 the related marker at the current frame (that is, you do NOT need to use 3 DROPOUT symbols for x, y, and z).
\par 
\par Example:
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f2\cgrid0 $Order
\par RFIN RWRA RWRB LWRA RTHI RFWT RELB RKNE LWRB RTOE STRN LFWT LELB RANK CLAV RBWT RHEE RFHD RSHO LFHD LUPA LBWT LKNE LSHO C7 LTOE LANK LHEE LFIN RBHD LBHD T10
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f2\cgrid0 $Points
\par 1  -615.870710 347.817731 951.389115  -597.964337 393.216718 1065.157889  -697.263315 439.700939 866.198188  -560.523739 543.521728 1064.977016  -704.859958 499.569721 726.202908  -769.069680 537.733809 983.041794  -827
.491483 488.174757 1111.280365  -786.614308 501.559318 490.345226  -559.619377 667.057615 884.285434  -619.849904 416.911009 81.392605  -628.712654 649.874732 1246.934706  -565.769040 753.152904 953.378712  -472.438853 777.570685 1128.282376  -756.046863 
5
11.326431 137.824811  -673.930768 684.421371 1359.618246  -917.385093 708.115662 955.730053  -740.491832 603.390511 50.282543  -766.175720 617.136817 1644.673235  -877.231408 652.045201 1457.289372  -643.363323 677.729090 1664.569206  -536.467702 871.4434
8
9 1305.718254  -770.878404 896.584761 960.613610  -721.861969 886.636776 478.769389  -644.810303 875.241811 1451.501453  -815.373028 832.194167 1505.763190  -717.521030 822.607926 82.477840  -829.481080 922.449522 142.889240  -930.950527 892.967312 58.602
675  DROPOUT  DROPOUT  DROPOUT  DROPOUT
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Additional Syntax Rules
\par }{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 1.\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls7\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls7\adjustright {
Any unrecognized $sections are ignored.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 2.\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls7\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls7\adjustright {All blank lines are ignored.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 3.\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls7\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls7\adjustright {
Leading white space on any line is ignored.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 4.\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls7\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls7\adjustright {
spaces or line feeds are used as separators.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f2\fs20\cgrid \hich\af2\dbch\af0\loch\f2 5.\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls7\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls7\adjustright {The reader allo
ws any combination of upper and lower case letters.
\par }\pard \s15\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b Character Studio 2.2 Marker Name File (MNM)
\par }{
\par The Character Studio 2.2 Marker Name file is used to match custom marker names in the CSM file with Biped 2.2's preset list of known, supported marker names.  For a complete list of supported marker names, see above.
\par 
\par The general syntax of the MNM file consists of two columns of names.
\par 
\par The left column corresponds to Biped's known marker names.
\par 
\par The column on the right corresponds to the custom marker names stored in a specific CSM file.
\par 
\par There should be an entry for every custom CSM marker name in the CSM file.  For completeness, all CSM markers can be listed and correlated to internal Biped names, even if the names are identical.
\par 
\par The listing below is an "identity" listing of fixed versus custom marker names files (the columns on the left and right are identical).
\par 
\par Optional (missing) marker name entries not in the CSM file can be omitted from the MNM marker file.
\par 
\par This list can be easily copied and modified (via the right column) for each unique motion capture session sample.
\par 
\par LFHD LFHD
\par LBHD LBHD
\par RBHD RBHD
\par RFHD RFHD
\par C7 \tab C7
\par T10 \tab T10
\par SACR SACR
\par CLAV CLAV
\par STRN STRN
\par LSHO LSHO
\par LELB LELB
\par LILB LILB
\par LWRE LWRE
\par LWRI LWRI
\par LFIN LFIN
\par RSHO RSHO 
\par RELB RELB
\par RILB RILB
\par RWRE RWRE
\par RWRI RWRI
\par RFIN RFIN
\par LFWT LFWT
\par LBWT LBWT
\par RBWT RBWT
\par RFWT RFWT
\par LKNE LKNE
\par LKNI LKNI
\par LANK LANK
\par LHEL LHEL 
\par LMT5 LMT5
\par LMTI LMTI
\par LTOE LTOE
\par RKNE RKNE
\par RKNI RKNI 
\par RANK RANK
\par RHEL RHEL
\par RMT5 RMT5
\par RMTI RMTI
\par RTOE RTOE
\par 
\par }{\b Example CSM and MNM
\par }{
\par This section provides examples of a corresponding pair .csm and .mnm files: fashion1.csm and fashion.mnm.
\par 
\par It also provides a brief working sample wendy.csm which illustrates how to specify the talent size snytax.
\par 
\par ------------
\par fashion1.csm
\par ------------
\par 
\par $filename\tab \tab fashion1.csm
\par $capturedate\tab 1998/01/31
\par $capturetime\tab 23:31:59
\par $actor\tab \tab Bogy
\par 
\par $comments
\par This is a Character Studio 2.2 CSM File
\par 
\par $firstframe 1
\par 
\par $lastframe 3
\par 
\par $spinelinks 3
\par 
\par $rate 60
\par 
\par $order
\par C7 CLAV LANK LBHD LBWT LELB LFHD LFIN LFWT LKNE LSHO LTOE LUPA LWRA LWRB RANK RBHD RBWT RELB RFHD RFIN RFWT RKNE RSHO RTHI RTOE RWRA RWRB STRN T10 
\par $points
\par 1 980.6 -2365.8 1541.3 1030.6 -2239.9 1492.1 967.3 -2427.5 181.8 936.2 -2330.1 1672.9 939.4 -2359.1 1109.3 782.9 -2263.3 1175.7 959.0 -2196.9 1753.8 762.3 -2135.1 862.6 949.3 -2187.2 1082.1 
934.2 -2343.2 583.1 870.4 -2246.7 1525.4 1031.7 -2339.7 83.1 814.6 -2218.7 1318.8 799.4 -2132.3 993.7 729.2 -2230.2 966.5 1110.1 -2060.1 197.3 1066.8 -2351.6 1670.5 1114.0 -2391.4 1116.4 1290.5 -2574.6 1396.5 1105.7 -2231.2 1740.1 1217.5 -2369.8 1149.5 11
59.8 -2233.6 1093.8 1138.8 -2119.2 605.9 1136.6 -2342.8 1564.9 1081.3 -2126.7 775.0 1065.2 -1944.5 112.2 1276.8 -2398.1 1271.2 1294.0 -2490.1 1183.6 1044.2 -2199.9 1395.9 988.1 -2404.3 1417.4
\par 
\par 2 979.8 -2358.9 1540.1 1029.4 -2232.4 1489.5 966.5 -2426.7 181.8
 936.2 -2322.0 1671.1 940.7 -2351.6 1107.3 783.9 -2249.8 1173.7 959.4 -2189.0 1752.6 767.9 -2113.2 863.4 948.9 -2177.9 1080.7 934.4 -2338.9 583.3 871.7 -2242.9 1523.4 1031.7 -2339.5 82.9 814.6 -2207.6 1317.8 803.3 -2113.8 994.5 732.4 -2209.8 964.1 1108.3 
-
2039.1 197.5 1067.2 -2343.2 1669.3 1115.0 -2382.1 1115.0 1292.6 -2563.1 1400.3 1106.5 -2223.7 1738.5 1212.0 -2367.2 1155.5 1162.2 -2222.1 1093.8 1140.2 -2119.4 601.9 1135.4 -2334.3 1563.9 1079.9 -2109.1 774.4 1064.5 -1921.3 116.0 1278.4 -2396.2 1273.8 128
4.5 -2483.4 1186.2 1043.6 -2192.5 1394.0 987.5 -2397.7 1415.2
\par 
\par 3 979.6 -2351.7 1539.3 1029.2 -2224.5 1487.1 966.1 -2426.1 181.6 936.4 -2313.5 1669.3 942.7 -2343.0 1105.1 784.3 -2236.2 1171.7 959.4 -2180.8 1750.6 773.8 -2090.6 864.4 949.3 -2168.6 1078.7 934.
2 -2334.3 582.5 871.3 -2235.2 1521.8 1031.3 -2339.1 82.5 814.4 -2196.5 1315.4 808.1 -2095.0 995.7 736.1 -2189.2 962.5 1107.1 -2019.5 197.9 1067.8 -2334.5 1668.0 1116.2 -2372.6 1113.2 1294.4 -2555.6 1402.1 1105.7 -2214.4 1736.9 1206.2 -2358.5 1162.0 1163.4
 -2214.2 1091.6 1140.2 -2115.6 598.3 1134.8 -2325.0 1562.3 1080.3 -2088.1 776.8 1058.9 -1897.7 119.9 1279.2 -2387.4 1276.6 1275.4 -2474.9 1189.0 1042.8 -2185.0 1391.8 987.7 -2391.0 1415.2
\par 
\par 
\par ------------
\par fashion.nmn
\par ------------
\par LFHD LFHD
\par LBHD LBHD
\par RBHD RBHD
\par RFHD RFHD
\par C7 C7
\par T10 T10
\par SACR SACR
\par CLAV CLAV
\par STRN STRN
\par LSHO LSHO
\par LELB LELB
\par LILB LILB
\par LWRE LWRA
\par LWRI LWRB
\par LFIN LFIN
\par RSHO RSHO 
\par RELB RELB
\par RILB RILB
\par RWRE RWRA
\par RWRI RWRB
\par RFIN RFIN
\par LFWT LFWT
\par LBWT LBWT
\par RBWT RBWT
\par RFWT RFWT
\par LKNE LKNE
\par LKNI LKNI
\par LANK LANK
\par LHEL LHEL 
\par LMT5 LMT5
\par LMTI LMTI
\par LTOE LTOE
\par RKNE RKNE
\par RKNI RKNI 
\par RANK RANK
\par RHEL RHEL
\par RMT5 RMT5
\par RMTI RMTI
\par RTOE RTOE
\par 
\par ------------
\par wendy.csm
\par ------------
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f2\cgrid0 $Filename wendy.wave.csm
\par $Date 1998/06/11
\par $Time 11:49:30
\par $Actor wendy
\par 
\par $Comments
\par Motion capture data from Vicon
\par Talent measurements are:
\par HEAD_LENGTH 
\par NECK_LENGTH 
\par CLAV_LENGTH
\par UPPERARM_LENGTH 
\par LOWERARM_LENGTH 
\par TORSO_LENGTH 
\par PELVIS_HEIGHT 
\par PELVIS_LENGTH 
\par UPPERLEG_LENGTH 
\par LOWERLEG_LENGTH 
\par FOOT_HEIGHT 
\par FOOT_LENGTH 
\par 
\par $FirstFrame 12
\par $LastFrame 300
\par $Rate 25.000
\par 
\par $Talent inches head 6.9 neck 2.6 clavicle 4.0 upperarm 10.7 forearm 10.7 spine 15.8 pelvheight 4.0 pelvlength 8.0 thigh 18.0 calf 16.5 footheight 5.0 footlength 7.0
\par 
\par $Order
\par LFHD RFHD LBHD RBHD C7 T10 CLAV STRN LSHO RSHO LELB RELB LWRI RWRI LWRE RWRE LFIN RFIN LBWT RBWT LFWT RFWT LKNE RKNE LANK RANK LTOE RTOE
\par 
\par $Points
\par 12  -1085.844924 34.741794 1419.824995  -1083.878407 -104.061504 1430.149208  -1230.220018 34.577917 1352.144048  -1217.929290 -110.780436 1357.224216  -1273.155631 -49.490668 1238.741590  -1353.455060 -52.7
68196 1114.359415  -1121.897728 -46.213140 1155.984016  -1124.355874 -51.457185 1048.972737  -1184.826260 118.646502 1217.929290  -1177.779575 -202.387335 1229.072884  -1445.061958 188.293966 1038.648525  -1211.538111 -313.823276 915.085731  -1504.549086 
1
92.882505 814.465631  -1027.341054 -303.499064 794.472712  -1454.075160 231.885084 815.612766  -992.599261 -327.425016 844.946638  -1515.364927 169.448182 714.992666  -926.884831 -271.543169 793.489454  -1439.981791 72.105609 847.404784  -1462.924484 -133
.
559253 853.304334  -1274.794395 69.647463 786.934398  -1301.178493 -170.595316 793.653330  -1072.079307 97.506449 481.796570  -1454.402912 -175.183855 341.354509  -1278.563552 46.049264 147.324870  -1801.329218 -116.188357 136.345152  -1137.302108 8.02994
3 66.533812  -1686.779626 -114.057964 34.086288
\par 
\par 13  -1014.067067 35.069546 1436.868139  -1011.608921 -102.422740 1444.078700  -1155.328511 36.216681 1368.859440  -1145.823680 -107.994537 1371.809215  -1198.919629 -52.768196 1255.456982  -1275.941530 -61.45
3644 1129.763795  -1049.300490 -40.149714 1174.502048  -1047.170097 -45.557635 1067.654645  -1115.834302 118.318750 1238.905467  -1092.399979 -195.668403 1253.654341  -1356.896464 174.200597 1085.025542  -1149.592837 -335.127206 952.777299  -1439.490161 1
8
8.949471 860.187142  -914.921855 -279.245359 833.639168  -1400.487582 238.604016 862.317535  -905.744777 -316.609175 876.247028  -1447.356228 176.494866 755.634009  -844.127257 -260.891204 823.314956  -1356.240958 68.500329 872.641747  -1373.447978 -137.4
9
2287 878.377421  -1196.461483 64.239543 805.780183  -1223.664963 -178.625259 802.338778  -999.973698 98.981336 493.595670  -1435.557128 -173.708968 365.116585  -1139.596378 35.233423 128.151333  -1777.403266 -122.087906 150.930150  -988.993980 2.785899 72
.433362  -1686.124120 -114.057964 33.758535
\par 
\par 14  -939.994941 36.544434 1454.566789  -938.028425 -100.128471 1458.335946  -1078.306610 38.838703 1386.066460  -1073.226442 -104.225381 1388.852359  -1122.880987 -53.423701 1273.483384  -1195.969854 -69.155834 1
144.512669  -972.934095 -32.119771 1194.658843  -965.559657 -36.708310 1090.269586  -1046.022962 118.154873 1257.915127  -1008.495270 -184.360933 1280.366192  -1299.539729 165.187396 1114.359415  -1126.486267 -369.869000 1006.201001  -1361.321126 192.5547
5
2 882.965960  -840.358100 -265.643619 847.404784  -1325.104445 242.864802 894.928936  -833.475292 -308.087603 892.470790  -1360.501744 192.554752 781.854230  -780.379343 -249.583734 829.870011  -1270.697485 60.962015 887.882251  -1282.004956 -145.194477 8
9
3.454048  -1112.065145 57.028982 822.495574  -1136.646603 -185.016438 813.646249  -931.309493 99.636842 495.726063  -1398.848818 -171.742451 395.761469  -1035.862626 25.400840 114.713469  -1732.828890 -131.756613 168.464923  -878.705174 2.785899 73.088867
  -1676.291537 -114.057964 29.169996
\par 
\par 15  -863.300794 38.674827 1468.496281  -863.628546 -97.834202 1469.151787  -998.498811 42.116231 1399.504324  -1000.301451 -98.817460 1401.306964  -1046.514591 -52.112690 1285.610236  -1115.834302 -73.908249 1152.378736
  -893.454048 -22.942694 1210.718729  -880.671690 -28.350615 1108.623741  -977.522634 119.957513 1266.764452  -926.065449 -173.872844 1297.900965  -1240.871983 158.468464 1115.834302  -1105.346213 -398.219614 1047.661726  -1269.058722 199.273684 881.65494
9
  -794.636588 -263.840979 844.946638  -1236.283445 247.125588 902.958879  -776.446310 -305.793333 891.487532  -1257.915127 213.039300 787.753780  -731.708057 -243.356431 816.596024  -1182.859743 52.440443 899.517475  -1188.267664 -154.043801 904.925395  -
1
027.013302 52.440443 833.803044  -1045.531333 -188.621719 823.806585  -869.200343 98.325831 486.221233  -1332.315006 -175.019979 416.737646  -974.408982 15.896009 104.225381  -1663.181426 -144.211218 187.966213  -813.482373 1.147135 62.600779  -1648.76030
4 -107.502908 26.711851
\par 
\par 16  -786.115016 42.116231 1475.215213  -788.737039 -93.901168 1473.740326  -918.199382 47.032522 1405.567750  -923.771179 -90.951393 1403.437357  -964.740276 -48.343533 1286.921247  -1036.518132 -75.547013 1153.361994  -812.499114 -
15.732133 1215.798897  -796.275352 -22.451065 1114.359415  -909.350058 123.890547 1263.159172  -844.782762 -169.939811 1300.195235  -1162.375195 155.518689 1086.008800  -1018.491730 -387.567649 1046.678468  -1156.803398 204.845481 855.106974  -764.974963 
-
273.673562 827.739618  -1131.238682 252.533509 882.474331  -732.691315 -312.512265 871.002984  -1134.352333 229.754691 770.055131  -698.768903 -251.714127 786.770522  -1099.446664 44.574377 905.253148  -1099.118911 -162.565373 909.677810  -943.927975 51.1
2
9432 837.408325  -955.563198 -189.604977 828.395124  -818.398664 92.754034 465.736685  -1229.892266 -182.066663 411.493601  -951.794041 8.849325 95.703809  -1569.116382 -158.468464 211.236660  -792.342319 -8.029943 47.032522  -1586.651155 -99.636842 40.64
1343
\par 
\par 17  -708.437610 46.540893 1474.887460  -713.190025 -89.312630 1471.609933  -837.080572 53.259825 1402.126346  -845.438268 -82.593698 1396.390672  -883.621465 -46.213140 1279.219057  -957.365838 -74.727631 1150.084466  -730.724798 -11.799100 1210.22710
0  -713.517778 -19.829043 1107.148854  -837.572201 127.331951 1250.049061  -763.827828 -171.250822 1289.543270  -1066.343634 160.434980 1035.043244  -897.550958 -354.300743 1021.769257  -1017.672348 206.156492 815.121136  -737.607607 -289.733448 800.53613
8
  -999.645945 255.974913 845.438268  -692.869354 -326.441758 837.572201  -979.325274 233.032219 739.246370  -678.284355 -278.262101 751.373223  -1022.752516 38.838703 905.253148  -1017.836224 -170.267563 904.269890  -865.922816 50.146174 833.475292  -869.
200343 -189.113348 825.117596  -773.824288 80.791058 439.516463  -1097.971776 -188.457842 386.912144  -948.188761 3.769157 91.115270  -1455.550047 -172.397956 240.570532  -788.900915 -17.043144 39.494209  -1482.589651 -111.927571 68.336452
\par 
\par 18  -630.596328 
50.146174 1470.135045  -636.332001 -85.871225 1465.710383  -756.125638 58.012240 1392.457639  -765.630468 -77.513530 1386.721966  -804.305295 -44.410500 1268.894845  -877.558039 -71.941733 1145.168175  -648.786606 -12.454605 1199.575135  -632.890597 -22.1
2
3312 1094.530372  -759.567042 129.462344 1234.480804  -685.167164 -174.036720 1277.088664  -953.596681 170.595316 979.653027  -806.763441 -332.013555 1007.184259  -848.551919 200.093065 782.181983  -707.782105 -310.873501 779.068332  -835.933437 251.71412
7
 813.974002  -656.324920 -345.451419 805.452430  -790.703555 219.758232 719.745081  -666.485256 -315.953669 727.283394  -951.466288 33.922412 902.631126  -942.125334 -178.133630 892.143037  -799.061251 50.801679 824.953720  -788.409286 -188.621719 817.251
529  -728.922158 68.008700 419.523544  -947.041626 -196.323909 362.986192  -945.402862 1.474887 92.754034  -1316.746749 -184.360933 265.151990  -787.589904 -19.501290 38.019321  -1338.542309 -143.719589 89.640382
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b 
\par }}