{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}
{\f17\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f18\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f20\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f21\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f22\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f24\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f30\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f32\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f34\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f107\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f108\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f110\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f111\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}
{\f112\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{
\s16\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 List;}{\s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pndec }\ls3\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 \sautoupd List Bullet;}{
\s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls4\pnrnot0\pndec }\ls4\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 \sautoupd List Bullet 2;}{\s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}{
\s20\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text 2;}{\s21\widctlpar\adjustright \cbpat9 \f15\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Document Map;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid179177996\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid-560922754\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}{\list\listtemplateid-1\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}}{\listname ;}\listid-2}{\list\listtemplateid67698689\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}
\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid266540943}{\list\listtemplateid67698689\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 
\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid568346943}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 
}{\listname ;}\listid1011108998}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname 
;}\listid1811746346}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls4}
{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls9}
{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls14}
{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls15}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls16}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls17}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls18}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls19}
{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls20}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls21}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls22}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls23}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls24}
{\listoverride\listid1011108998\listoverridecount0\ls25}{\listoverride\listid1811746346\listoverridecount0\ls26}{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelold
\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 }}\ls27}{\listoverride\listid568346943\listoverridecount0\ls28}{\listoverride\listid266540943\listoverridecount0\ls29}}{\info{\title Character Studio 2}{\author yatesj}
{\operator yatesj}{\creatim\yr1999\mo6\dy30\hr12\min23}{\revtim\yr1999\mo7\dy13\hr11}{\printim\yr1999\mo7\dy1\hr9\min21}{\version20}{\edmins42}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords4725}{\nofchars26938}{\*\company Autodesk, Inc.}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern89}}
\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\qc\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs48 Character Studio R2.2
\par Readme
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {What\rquote s New in Character Studio R2.2?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Character Studio is an optional set of plug-ins that can be purchased for 3DS MAX R3 to create character animations.  Character Studio 2.2 authorization is not included with a purchase of, or upgrade to 3DS MAX R3.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Character Studio R2.2 is a compatibility
 release of Character Studio R2.1 for 3D Studio MAX R3. (Note that Character Studio R2.1 was a free update / bug fix release for registered owners of Character Studio R2.0 and 3DS MAX 2.x.  Character Studio R2.1 was available only from the Discreet web si
te at www.ktx.com.) 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Character Studio R2.2 is functionally the same as Character Studio R2.1, the only difference being that Character Studio R2.2 is for use with 3D Studio MAX R3, and Character Studio R2.1 is for use only with 3D Studio MAX R2/R2.5.  No 
new features have been added to Character Studio R2.2, although some significant behavioral modifications have been made.  Please be sure to read the entire Character Studio R2.2 Readme.rtf file found in the cstudio\\docs folder for details.  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 A full distr
ibution Character Studio R2.2 (including all sample files) is included on the 3DS MAX R3 CD-ROM.  Installation of 3DS MAX R3 will automatically provide you with an option to install Character Studio R2.2.  You may choose to install the complete distributi
on (\ldblquote typical\rdblquote ), a compact distribution, or a custom distribution.  Note that the typical Character Studio R2.2 installation will require up to 180 MB of disk space to store samples, including motion capture data.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {Compatibility
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Character Studio R2.2 requi
res 3D Studio MAX R3; it is not compatible with earlier versions of 3D Studio MAX.  All Character Studio 2.x data files remain forward compatible to Character Studio R2.2.  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Backward compatibility between Character Studio R2.2 and Character Studio R2.1 an
d R2.0 is not supported. That is, files saved with this version of Character Studio cannot be used by earlier versions of Character Studio.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {Authorization
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 After installation of Character Studio R2.2, if you own a PREVIOUSLY REGISTERED copy of Character S
tudio 2.0, you will need to reauthorize your new version of Character Studio R2.2 using the printed directions included with your OLD Character Studio R2.0 distribution.  After reauthorization, you will have complete access to Character Studio features.  
There is no charge to authorize Character Studio R2.2 for 3DS MAX R3 if you already own a PREVIOUSLY REGISTERED copy of Character Studio 2.0.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 If you DO NOT OWN a registered copy of Character Studio, you will need to purchase a copy of Character Studio 2.0 
(not R2.2) from your local dealer first, and then authorize it for use with 3DS MAX R3.  Receiving a physical shipment of Character Studio 2.0 will provide you with a proof-of-purchase serial number that can be used to authorize Character Studio R2.2.  It
 
will also provide you with an authorization card, current documentation and collateral information.  You will not need to install the OLD Character Studio 2.0 CD, since a full distribution of Character Studio R2.2 (including all sample files) is included 
on the 3DS Max R3 CD-ROM, as described above.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 If you own a registered copy of Character Studio 1.x, you will need to PURCHASE AN UPGRADE to Character Studio 2.0 first, and then authorize it for use with 3DS MAX
 R3. Receiving a physical shipment of the Character Studio 2.0 UPGRADE will provide you with a proof-of-purchase serial number that will be required for you to authorize Character Studio R2.2 from the 3DS MAX R3 CD-ROM. It will also provide you with an au
t
horization card, current documentation and collateral information.  You will not need to install the OLD Character Studio 2.0 CD contained in your upgrade, since a full distribution of Character Studio R2.2 (including all sample files) is included on the 
3DS Max R3 CD-ROM, as described above.  Note: There is no compatible version of Character Studio 1.15 for 3DS MAX R3.  You must purchase an upgrade from Character Studio R1.15 to Character Studio R2.0.  Contact your local dealer for upgrade information.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 You can use Character Studio R2.2 without a valid authorization if you only intend to preview or render (or net-render) existing Character Studio R2.x characters.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 If you do utilize 3DS MAX net-rendering, you must update all net-rendering systems with Character Studio R2.2 to ensure identical rendering results. This does not require authorization.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1\fs24 Biped Operational Changes
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 The following changes in Biped operation resulted from general defect repairs:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Modified Knee }{\cgrid0 Interpolation}{ Kinematics
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 A "biomechanical" knee kinematics method has been implemented that prevents pops in the knee joint when it becomes straight.
\par The following command entered in the BIPED.INI file (in the 3DSMAX\\plugcfg directory) may be used to turn this method on and off:
\par }\pard \s19\li720\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1 "KneeKinematics=1"
\par }\pard \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1 It will be turned on by default when Character Studio 2.2 starts for the first time, and the above biped.ini command will be added to the plugcfg\\
biped.ini file if it does not exist.  You must edit the biped.ini file and set this value off (0) to disable this method.
\par This modified method for knee kinematics affects only interpolated frames for leg tracks.  That is, user-specified key-frames for leg tracks will respect all user modifications; while interpolated frames between user-specified key-frames
 will utilize the currently active knee kinematics method, as described above.  If you change the biped pose between user-specified key-frames by using either the center of mass or leg tracks, you will see an automatic adjustment to unselected the knee/an
kle to prevent knee popping during interpolation.
\par Per-frame key-framed animations for a particular leg will completely eliminate automatic adjustments from the modified knee kinematics method, since no interpolation is occurring.
\par In cases where a leg is bet
ween keys having different spaces (Body Space to Object Space or vice versa), the IK blend is no longer used (it is now set to zero). This change eliminates pops in the knee just before and after liftoff, so that the knee more smoothly makes the transitio
n across the foot contact boundaries.
\par The new leg interpolation kinematics and adaptation only apply to two-link legs. Three-linked legged creatures typically keep their knees }{\f1\cgrid0 more}{\f1  tightly bent, so difficulty with popping knee joints is typically not a problem.
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Modified Leg Anchor Behavior
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par Behavior of the Leg Anchor buttons in the Keyframing rollout of the Biped Motion Panel has been modified to provide more intuitive control during rotation of the foot. This modification is especially useful for creati
ng free-form walking sequences that use IK constraints.  When either the right or left Leg anchor is enabled, rotation of the corresponding foot will cause the entire leg (hip, knee, and ankle joints) to rotate so that the tip of the toes stay locked in t
h
eir initial position.  This modification provides more intuitive posing of the entire leg in situations where the tip of the toes must stay on the ground.  Once a desired pose is achieved at a given frame, you should set a key for the leg and then disable
 
the anchor button for the selected leg.  Note that any combination of xyz rotations on an anchored foot will result in a 3D IK solution for the entire leg.  However, modifications to the horizontal or vertical tracks of the Biped will only extend the leg 
f
rom the ankle as usual, not from the toe.  Lastly, note that Leg Anchors are temporary locks that do not affect key-frame data directly - leaving them enabled during playback will not reflect the actual animation that will be stored when you save your wor
k. Be sure to turn them off when you are finished.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 Modified Arm Anchor Behavior
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par Behavior of the Arm Anchor buttons in the Keyframing rollout of the Biped Motion 
Panel has been modified so that if the anchor is on, you can now rotate the arm's clavicles without repositioning the hands. This is especially useful for cases where the hands are attached to other objects in the scene.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Biped Biped.ini file 
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 The BIPED.INI file now has a line 
\par }\pard \s19\fi360\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1 IniVersionNumber = 220  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \li360\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
for Character Studio 2.2. This additional syntax will be used to track changes in variables in the future. It is added to the biped.ini file automatically when Character Studio 2.2 starts for the first t
ime. This command is reserved for internal use only and should not be changed by the user.}{\f1\cgrid0   
\par 
\par For Biped 2.2, the following parameters have been added to the BIPED.INI file with these defaults (also put in automatically when Character Studio 2.2 starts for the first time):
\par 
\par KneeKinematics=1
\par MocapVariableDynamics=1
\par MocapUseLegIK=1
\par MocapUseArmIK=1
\par MocapHeightSmoothing=0
\par MocapBodyHorzSmoothing=0
\par MocapBodyRotSmoothing=3
\par MocapSpineSmoothing=6
\par MocapHeadSmoothing=3
\par 
\par Parameter(=default)                  Range            Function                                                                                          
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par }\pard \fi-3780\li4140\nowidctlpar\tx3150{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 MocapUseLegIK=1\tab 0 or 1\tab Snaps feet to markers during Adjust Talent Pose CSM or BVH calibration.
\par MocapUseArmIK=1\tab 0 or 1\tab Snaps hands to markers during Adjust Talent Pose CSM or BVH calibration.
\par MocapVariableDynamics=1\tab 0 or 1\tab Turns on/off automatic determination of Dynamics Blend for motion captured key-reduced vertical key-frames.
\par MocapHeightSmoothing=0\tab 0 to 20\tab Smoothes out motion captured CSM body vertical height values to prevent jitter.
\par MocapBodyHorzSmoothing=0  \tab 0 to 20 \tab Smoothes out motion captured CSM body horizontal translation values to prevent jitter.
\par MocapBodyRotSmoothing=3\tab 0 to 20\tab Smoothes out motion captured CSM body rotation values to prevent jitter.
\par MocapSpineSmoothing=6\tab 0 to 20\tab Smoothes out motion captured CSM spine values to prevent jitter.
\par MocapHeadSmoothing=3\tab 0 to 20\tab Smoothes out motion captured CSM head values to prevent jitter.
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\ul\cgrid0 See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf and cstudio\\Docs\\csm.max documents for more information on the motion capture related parameters.}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
BVH Mocap Import 
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s15\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls28\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls28\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Biped BVH Import now supports both 2 and 3-linked spines in BVH file format. The third spine link is called  "Chest2", and should be introduced below the existing "Chest" joint.  For a complete description and file sample, see cstudio\\Docs\\
BVH.rtf for more information on BVH import.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s19 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s19\fi-360\li720\sa120\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls29\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls29\adjustright {\f1 
Biped BVH import also supports non-symmetrical arm and leg bone sizes.
\par }\pard \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Note that BVH Mocap import now utilizes the modified knee kinematics method described above, if enabled in the biped.ini file with the command:
\par }\pard\plain \li270\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\ul\cgrid0 See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\bvh.rtf document for more information on BVH import.}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 CSM Mocap Import 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 CSM Mocap import and joint-solver has been substantially improved to provide a much higher degree of accuracy and quality. Specifically, Biped 2.2
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
Computes a joint centered skeleton so that the hands and feet may be positioned precisely over world-space hand and feet markers. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 Provides increased accuracy for positioning the spine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
Adds selective mocap smoothing parameters (in the BIPED.INI file) for removing motion jitter.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
Gives a more accurate and flexible calibration technique for creating and using Talent Definition files (.cal and .fig).
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }{\b\f1\ul NOTE}{\f1 : Character Studio 2.2 CSM motion capture import now requires the use of a talent pose calibration file (.cal) and a figure structure calibration file (.fig) for all proper conversion of CSM to .bip files.  }{\b\f1 Also, calibration 
must be done at frame zero of the scene}{\f1 .  If the current frame is greater than zero, all calibration-related buttons in the Motion Capture Rollout will be disabled.  Return the animation to frame zero to enabled calibration buttons and to
 complete proper calibration, and to save the pose calibration (.cal) and figure calibration (.fig) files
\par }{\f1\ul See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf and cstudio\\Docs\\csm.max documents for more information on CSM import.
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1\cgrid0 
Sliding Footsteps allow users to  override IK foot constraints}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par It is now possible to override IK footstep constraints by turning a footstep into a sliding footstep.  Sliding footsteps may be set by setting the IK-blend to a non-zero number at
 the touch keyframe (that is, at the very beginning of contact with the footstep). In effect, this tells BIPED 2.2 that the user wishes the manage control of the IK behavior of the foot during that footstep placement. The footstep will turn ORANGE if it i
s a sliding step. Setting the IK-blend back to zero at the touch keyframe will turn the footstep back into an ordinary non-sliding footstep with its original blue or green color.
\par 
\par Once the footstep has been changed at the touch keyframe into a Sliding Footstep, the subsequent plant and lift keyframes may be set (in the Biped Key Info pulldown) as follows:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li1080\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
If Body Space is checked for the selected Sliding Footstep keyframe, the foot will interpolate according to the rules that are operative in Freeform mo
de. The user may set the foot to reside at any location at a distance from the footstep. The user's choice of K-blend will determine (as always) the mix between forward and inverse kinematic interpolation.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li1080\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 If Object Space is checked for the selected Sli
ding Footstep keyframe, the foot will be constrained to "slide" on the plane defined by the footstep. This is useful in cases where the foot should not be allowed to intersect with the ground plane, and the user wants some part of the foot to be in contac
t with the ground.  For this case, IK-Blend is automatically set by the software to 1.0.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 
Sliding Footsteps  extracted based on  Sliding Angle threshold from Motion Capture Data with Keyframe reduction
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
The extraction of Sliding Footsteps is needed in cases where the motion capture data contains sliding foot contacts.  In Biped 2.2, a default Sliding Angle of 25.0 degrees is used so that when feet that turn more than 25 degrees during contact with a foot
s
tep, the software creates a sliding footstep to allow the foot to slide across it. In the mocap footstep extractor, the plant and lift keys are constrained to slide on the plane define by each step (with Object Space checked for each sliding footstep keyf
rame).
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs20 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls27\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnindent360 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls27\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 
All Footsteps become Sliding Footsteps if extracted from Motion Capture Data with No Keyframe reduction
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 For this special case where Footstep Extraction is selected and No Keyframe Reduction is also selected, in Biped 2.2, all the footsteps will 
extracted as sliding footsteps. With this special case, it is assumed that the user does NOT want to otherwise alter the raw data in any way. Biped 2.2 achieves this, for this case, by setting all the touch, plant, and lift leg keyframes to have an the Bo
dy Space selected (thus allowing the feet to precisely match the placement of the raw data). 
\par 
\par Extracting footsteps for raw data is useful in cases where the user wants to gracefully bend the footsteps to adapt the raw motion. Although there may be some residual sliding, for many applications, this type of adaptation is effective.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0  }{\b\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Optional CSM syntax for Talent Bone Size
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 An optional $Talent line has been added to the CSM motion capture file to allow for specification of talent figure bone sizes.  This
 was done to help Biped generate a more accurate initial calibration for the Talent Structure (*.fig) when reading raw motion capture data onto a Biped figure.  See the Cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf file for more information (included with this update.)
\par The option syntax is:
\par }\pard\plain \li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 $Talent <units> 
\par head <HEAD_LENGTH>
\par neck <NECK_LENGTH>
\par clavicle <CLAV_LENGTH>
\par upperarm <UPPERARM_LENGTH>
\par forearm <LOWERARM_LENGTH>
\par spine <TORSO_LENGTH>
\par pelvheight <PELVIS_HEIGHT>
\par pelvlength <PELVIS_LENGTH>
\par thigh <UPPERLEG_LENGTH>
\par calf <LOWERLEG_LENGTH>
\par footheight <FOOT_HEIGHT>
\par footlength <FOOT_LENGTH>
\par }\pard \li1440\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs16 
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 where <units> is either millimeter OR inches (one MUST be specified)
\par and
\par }\pard \li1440\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 1.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
HEAD_LENGTH is measured from the top of the head to bottom of the chin
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 2.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
NECK_LENGTH is measured from the base of the head to top of the spine
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 3.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
CLAV_LENGTH is the length of the clavicle or collar bone 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 4.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
UPPERARM_LENGTH is measured from the shoulder to the elbow
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 5.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
LOWERARM_LENGTH is the length from the elbow to the wrist 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 6.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 TORSO_LENGTH is the len
gth of the entire spine, which will be broken into three links
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 7.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
PELVIS_HEIGHT is used to specify the distance between the base of the spine and the pelvis
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 8.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
PELVIS_LENGTH is measured from the right hip to the left hip
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 9.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 UPPE
RLEG_LENGTH is measured from the hip to the knee
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 10.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
LOWERLEG_LENGTH is measured from the knee to the ankle
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 11.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
FOOT_HEIGHT is measured from the ankle  to the bottom of the foot
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 12.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
FOOT_LENGTH is measured from the heel to the base of the big toe
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 13.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 T
he names for body parts now correspond to biped naming conventions (that the user sees when clicking on Biped parts.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 14.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
All 12 body parts that must be delineated.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 15.\tab}}\pard \fi-450\li1530\widctlpar\tx810\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls25\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls25\adjustright {\f1 
Talent size information in a CSM file will be ignored if a Figure Structure file (*.fig) is specified in the Talent Definition region of the Biped Motion Capture Conversion Parameters dialog.
\par }\pard \li1080\widctlpar\tx810\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\tx810\adjustright {\f1 And
\par }\pard \li810\widctlpar\tx810\adjustright {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 1.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls26\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls26\adjustright {\f1 
The <body part> <number> pairs may be specified in any order.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 2.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls26\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls26\adjustright {\f1 
If a body part is missing, it will receive a large default dimension so that the user can visually see that these missing part dimensions need to be provided.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\cgrid \hich\af1\dbch\af0\loch\f1 3.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li1080\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx1080{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls26\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls26\adjustright {\f1 
If a body part name cannot be identified due to a misspelling,  its numerical value is skipped over as if it was a missing body part
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\ul See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf and cstudio\\Docs\\csm.max documents for more information on CSM import.
\par }\pard \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Corrected CSM import for tumbling
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Motion capture import interpretation of marker data has been chang
ed for the lower chest and body rotation about the Z-axis.  A simple global analysis of the average leg direction is now used to determine whether the body as a whole should be rotated as the hip markers move. A blended continuous solution is now used.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Specifically, the rule is:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 1.\tab If average_leg_direction is less than 10 degrees from upright, we assume the pelvis is rotating sideways independently.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 2.\tab If  average_leg_direction  is greater than  20 degrees from upright,   we assume the entire body\rquote s coordinate frame is rotating

\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 3.\tab If average_leg_direction falls between 10 and 20 degrees, we blend gradually blend the solution.
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
CSM Toe and Heel Marker Placement
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Biped uses the CSM toe markers named "LTOE", "RTOE" to help determine the default orientation of the feet when a CSM file is first read.  Biped expects each toe marker to be placed on the middle toe of the foot. If the toe markers are placed correctly, th
e
 orientation of each Biped foot will match the talent's feet.  If the toe markers are NOT placed on the middle toe of the talent's foot, the orientation of each foot will be turned in or out depending on the offset.  This orientation can be easily recalib
r
ated in after "raw" import by rotating the foot to the proper position and then using the Adjust Talent Pose button in the Motion Capture rollout of the Biped Motion Panel.  You can then save incremental pose adjustments using the Save Talent Pose Adjustm
ent button in the same rollout.  These pose adjustments are stored in a .cal calibration file that can be referenced during batch import and conversion of CSM files into the .bip format.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\ul See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf and cstudio\\Docs\\csm.max documents for more information on CSM import.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
CSM Heel Marker Placement (Optional)
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Biped uses the optional CSM heel markers named "LHEL" and "RHEL" (when present) in conjunction with the required toe markers ("LTOE", "RTOE") to help determine the default or
ientation of the feet when a CSM file is first read.  Biped expects each heel marker to be placed on the middle heel at the back of the foot. Biped uses the straight line between the heel and toe markers to establish the orientation of the foot.  If the h
e
el markers are NOT placed on the middle heel at the back of the talent's foot, the orientation of each foot will be turned in or out depending on the offset.  This orientation can be easily recalibrated in after "raw" import by rotating the foot to the pr
o
per position and then using the Adjust Talent Pose button in the Motion Capture rollout of the Biped Motion Panel.  You can then save incremental pose adjustments using the Save Talent Pose Adjustment button in the same rollout.  These pose adjustments ar
e stored in a .cal calibration file that can be referenced during batch import and conversion of CSM files into the .bip format.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\ul See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf and cstudio\\Docs\\csm.max documents for more information on CSM import.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Mocap Calibration modifications
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
You may now calibrate the Talent Structure (bone lengths) without losing pose calibrations. Note also that you can always modify previously stored bone lengths/pose calibrations (in the .fig/.cal files) by making modifications interactiv
ely and then saving out the .fig and .cal files again from the "Save Talent Figure Structure" and "Save Talent Pose Adjustment" Buttons, respectively.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\ul See the complete cstudio\\Docs\\csm.rtf and cstudio\\Docs\\csm.max documents for more information on CSM import.
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Figure Mode State Repair 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Biped no longer loses its figure mode pose when animate button is turned on. Also, Biped no longer loses its figure mode pose using biped playback.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Merging and Frame Rate Adaptation Repair 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 When merging a biped character in a .max file with a different frame rate, the current frame rate frame rate is no longer switched. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
When you create a new biped, the default is now a triangular pelvis.
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
The base of the spine has been raised for the default biped.
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Convert to freeform and mocap import now honor spline vs. biped dynamics settings in the Animation Properties rollout of the Biped Motion panel.
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Convert to footstep now creates steps locations precisely for cases that start with Freeform.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Removal of Non-uniform scaling from NEW Bipeds 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Game export of newly created Biped characters (R2.1 and R2.2) and objects linked to them will no longer exhibit non-uniform scaling anomalies in CS R2.2.  All non-uniform scaling information has been removed from NE
W Bipeds created with version R2.1/R2.2 of Character Studio Biped. This change also eliminates scaling anomalies that occurred when using the current 3DS MAX VRML and 3DS export tools to export Biped characters.  Biped-based bone systems created prior to 
version R2.1 will retain non-uniform scaling information in CS R2.2 and may continue to exhibit export anomalies related to scaling.  Pre-2.1 characters can be identified by using the control-alt-e key sequence: Pre-2.1 Bipeds will exhibit \ldblquote 
zero scaling\rdblquote  in
 the viewport after control-alt-e is used; Newly created R2.1 and R2.2 Bipeds will remain unchanged. Pre-2.1 Bipeds can be converted characters by saving .fig and .bip information and then reloading them onto a newly created 2.2 Biped. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Corrected Track View Footstep Edits 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Editing of footstep timing in the track view editor that opens or closes gaps between the footsteps (and result in a warning message) now retains the user\rquote 
s keys according to the following rules:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 1.\tab Vertical keys are 
now added to satisfy footstep constraints, and they are given heights based on the values of the existing keys (rather than the default values). The existing user-defined keys are retained. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 2.\tab Horizontal user-defined keys are retained.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 3.\tab Leg keys are n
ot retained since there is now general method to map user-defined keys into a new footstep pattern. However, in cases where the new moving state leg keys fall in the interval of the user\rquote 
s moving state keys, the new keys are equated with the user-defined keys.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 4.\tab Keyframes are correctly synchronized for cases when support relations change.  In cases where new locked keys are needed (when gaps are introduced), they are inserted.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 5.\tab If the adapt locks for time is checked, keys within stretched regions of track view do not scale (thus allowing animators to insert new keys).
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 6.\tab Overlapping and simultaneous keys are deleted, similar to the way MAX works when snap keys is on.  The only time a warning message should appear is when the footstep pattern has
 steps that are shorter than two frames, or when there are negative frame numbers.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s18 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls24\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls24\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Horizontal Keys Unlocked 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Horizontal keys are now always unlocked and interpolated as ordinary TCB splines. In the past, the horizontal track used special methods to in
sure that the COM traveled along a linear path at a constant speed while the biped was in the air (unless the user set a horizontal keyframe in the air to defeat it). This new approach also allows for retaining horizontal keys as described above. 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1\fs24 Physique Operational Changes
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 The following changes in Physique operation resulted from general defect repairs:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Performance Defect corrected for Deformable Envelope Viewing
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 A new user-interface option has been added to Physique to increase viewport interactivity for \ldblquote finished\rdblquote 
 characters that have been constructed with Deformable Envelopes.  The Skin Update section of the Physique Level of Detail rollout in the Physique modifier has been augmented to include different update settings for Renderer and Viewpor
ts.  This new choice allows you to optimize interactivity in the viewport after a character has been finished, without affecting the quality of rendering results.  Enabling the Rigid option in the Skin Update area converts Deformable envelopes to Rigid en
v
elopes for viewing only; this change can increase speed by a factor of two for complex models.  Note that Rigid envelope update in the viewport results in only an approximation of deformation effects that will be seen during rendering; rendering will cont
inue to use deformable envelopes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Vertex Assignment Storage in .phy file
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Physique now stores locked vertex assignments in the .phy file so that they can be recalled and re-used on a different physiqued character or a character whose physique modifier 
has been re-initialized.  The character must have identical hierarchy and, in the case of locked vertex information, identical geometry.  Physique will save and recall the weighting information for locked vertices and apply it to the currently active phys
ique modifier.  Physique continues to save/reload all other envelope, link, and budge information in the .phy file as well. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Type-In Weights modification
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 A modification has been made to the Type-In Weights dialog of the Vertex-Link Assignment rollout 
(Sub-Object Vertex) in the Physique modifier.  This modification was made to simplify assignment of weights for new / multiple bone links.  The Type-In Weights dialog has been augmented with a new list box that displays explicit names for the links that a
re being changed.  The contents of the new list depends on the current setting of the buttons \ldblquote Currently Assigned Links Only\rdblquote  and \ldblquote All Links\rdblquote .   If \ldblquote Currently Assigned Links Only\rdblquote 
 is selected, the new list box will only display link names that influence the
 currently selected vertices.  That is, only links that have non-zero weighting influence on the currently selected vertices will be displayed in the list box.  This option simplifies display, but prevents assignment of non-zero values to alternative link
s.  If \ldblquote All Links\rdblquote  is selected, the new list box will display all link names in the character\rquote 
s hierarchy, even if they are zero.  This option allows you to increase the influence of any bone on the currently selected vertices.  Note, with both settings, th
e weighting value displayed in the list box for each link will be blank if the currently selected list of vertices do not share the exact same weighting value for each link.  Changing the weighting value will result in a uniform change to all selected ver
tices and the new value will be properly displayed.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {Biped SDK Modifications
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Additional function calls have been added to the Biped SDK to facilitate export character animation data to Games, and for transfer to 3}{\f1\super 
rd}{\f1 -party applications.  Technical specifications can be found in the updated files bipexp.rtf and bipexp.h found in Cstudio\\Docs. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {Physique SDK Modifications
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Additional function calls have been added to the Physique SDK to facilitate both export and impor
t of character animation data to/from Games, and for transfer to/from 3}{\f1\super rd}{\f1 -party applications.  Technical specifications can be found in the updated files phyexp.rtf and phyexp.h found in Cstudio\\Docs.  General additions include:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Export of deformable vertex information
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Character Studio R2.2 allows users to export Deformable Vertices as time frame offsets from a rigid node offset. The Rigid Offset Vector is identical to the Rigid Vertex Offset Vector. This represents the vertex in local coordinates from 
the attached node. Note that since the deformable offset is relative to a single node, Blending between links is handled internal to Physique in determining this offset, so that the export is a single offset for a given time for a single Node.  A source c
ode sample plug-in project has been included in the Cstudio\\Docs folder, called PhCollapse.zip.  This .zip files illustrates how the new extensions can be used to create a plug-in that converts a physique\rquote d character in a simple animated mesh.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Import of vertex assignments and weighting
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Character Studio R2.2 allows users to programmatically set the Rigid Vertex Assignments (with or without Blending) via Import Interface
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {Extras
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Several unsupported samples have also been included in the Cstudio\\Docs folder to help with import and export from Character Studio:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Cstudio\\Docs\\PhCollapse.zip
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
An unsupported source code sample that illustrates how to use the new Physique deformable vertex export SDK extensions.  See the attached Readme in this .zip file for more information.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s17 \f3\fs20\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls23\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls23\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
Cstudio\\Docs\\Readcsm.ms for Weapons & Props
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li360\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 An unsupported MAXScri
pt .ms file that illustrates how to parse a Character Studio CSM file.  This particular script reads a CSM and creates animated dummy objects that illustrate selected optical markers from the CSM file.  This script can be used to read Weapon/Prop Marker d
ata contained in a CSM file. Once read and converted to dummy objects, these markers can be used to drive the position/orientation of auxiliary weapons or props, in synch with Biped characters that use the same CSM data for global character motion.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {Known Issues 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {\fs24 General
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 If large fonts are set on the system, the collapse button in Biped\rquote 
s Key Info rollout disappears after clicking it to collapse the lower half of the Key Info rollout. Note that 3D Studio MAX R2 does not recommend the use of large fonts.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {\fs24 Biped
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
Do not use arrow keys on the keyboard to move selected biped keys in Track View.  Usually biped will prevent you from moving biped keys to frames containing other biped keys, but not when using these keyboard shortcuts.  Moving a biped key to a frame
 containing another biped key will result in errors.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
When creating freeform animations it is a good idea to set at least one key for each Biped track.  Problems may occur if a track does not have at least one key.   A quick way to set keys for all tracks 
at once is to copy and paste the pose with the animate button turned on.  To do this, Press Copy Pose, a button located under the copy posture fly-off button.  With the animate button on, press Paste Pose.  A key will be set for all Biped tracks, and you 
will not experience any problems when saving and loading the file, or when converting to footsteps.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid {\fs24 Physique
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 There is a problem with image motion blur when you have sliding skin at some joints, have skin sliding turned on in the renderer, and have a diffe
rent level of detail in the viewport versus the renderer.  This is a newly introduced bug since you can now have different skin update parameters in the renderer and the viewports. To avoid this problem, be sure that your level of detail settings in the r
enderer are the same as those in the viewport.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Sub-object tendon radial links don\rquote 
t update with new assignments.   The radial links for the control points are still attached to their original assignments and not their new assignments.  The control points a
ct like they should and move with their new assignment, the UI is just not updated.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 Characters created with NURBS surfaces may suffer from slow performance when combined with Physique. This is due to the dependency of each on changes in the modifier stac
k. While setting up your Physique parameters, temporarily place a Mesh Select modifier on your NURBS object, below Physique in the stack, to convert it to a mesh. When Physique\rquote 
s envelopes and parameters are set to your liking, disable the Mesh Select modifier and Physique will correctly deform the NURBS surface.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\v\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {
\par }}